## 5 Limitations and Future Directions

 We discuss limitations of our approach and future directions. Related work is given in Appendix A . Compiling to CUDA. Our current approach to building IO-aware implementations of attention requires writing a new CUDA kernel for each new attention implementation. This requires writing the attention algorithm in a considerably lower-level language than PyTorch, and requires significant engineering effort. Implementations may also not be transferrable across GPU architectures. These limitations suggest the need for a method that supports writing attention algorithms in a high-level language (e.g., PyTorch), and compiling to IO-aware implementations in CUDA—similar to efforts such as Halide in image processing [ 70 ] . IO-Aware Deep Learning. We believe that the IO-aware approach can extend beyond attention. Attention is the most memory-intensive computation in Transformers, but every layer in a deep network touches GPU HBM. We hope our work inspires IO-aware implementations of additional modules. We discuss these potential extensions in Appendix D . Multi-GPU IO-Aware Methods. Our IO-aware implementation of attention is optimal within constants for computing attention on a single GPU. However, the attention computation may be parallelizable across multiple GPUs [ 72 ] . Using multiple GPUs adds an additional layer to IO analysis—accounting for data transfer between GPUs. We hope our work inspires future work in this direction. Our implementation uses Apex’s FMHA code ( https://github.com/NVIDIA/apex/tree/master/apex/contrib/csrc/fmha ) as a starting point. We thank Young-Jun Ko for the in-depth explanation of his FMHA implementation and for his thoughtful answers to our questions about CUDA. We thank Sabri Eyuboglu, Megan Leszczynski, Laurel Orr, Yuhuai Wu, Beidi Chen, and Xun Huang for their constructive feedback and suggestions on early drafts of the paper. We thank Markus Rabe and Charles Staats for helpful discussion of their attention algorithm. We gratefully acknowledge the support of NIH under No. U54EB020405 (Mobilize), NSF under Nos. CCF1763315 (Beyond Sparsity), CCF1563078 (Volume to Velocity), and 1937301 (RTML); ARL under No. W911NF-21-2-0251 (Interactive Human-AI Teaming); ONR under No. N000141712266 (Unifying Weak Supervision); ONR N00014-20-1-2480: Understanding and Applying Non-Euclidean Geometry in Machine Learning; N000142012275 (NEPTUNE); NXP, Xilinx, LETI-CEA, Intel, IBM, Microsoft, NEC, Toshiba, TSMC, ARM, Hitachi, BASF, Accenture, Ericsson, Qualcomm, Analog Devices, Google Cloud, Salesforce, Total, the HAI-GCP & HAI-Azure Cloud Credits for Research program, the Stanford Data Science Initiative (SDSI), Department of Defense (DoD) through the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship (NDSEG) Program, and members of the Stanford DAWN project: Facebook, Google, and VMWare. The U.S. Government is authorized to reproduce and distribute reprints for Governmental purposes notwithstanding any copyright notation thereon. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views, policies, or endorsements, either expressed or implied, of NIH, ONR, or the U.S. Government. Atri Rudra’s research is supported by NSF grant CCF-1763481.