## 4 Experiments

 We evaluate the impact of using FlashAttention to train Transformer models. We validate two claims about training time and model accuracy, and report attention runtime and memory benchmarks. - • Training Speed. FlashAttention outperforms the MLPerf 1.1 [ 58 ] speed record for BERT by 15%, and speeds up GPT-2 up to 3 × \times over HuggingFace [ 87 ] and 1.8 × 1.8\times over Megatron [ 77 ] over standard Transformers. FlashAttention speeds up the long-range arena (LRA) benchmark 2.4 × \times . Training Speed. FlashAttention outperforms the MLPerf 1.1 [ 58 ] speed record for BERT by 15%, and speeds up GPT-2 up to 3 × \times over HuggingFace [ 87 ] and 1.8 × 1.8\times over Megatron [ 77 ] over standard Transformers. FlashAttention speeds up the long-range arena (LRA) benchmark 2.4 × \times . - • Quality. FlashAttention scales Transformers to longer sequences, yielding higher quality. FlashAttention trains GPT-2 with context length 4K faster than Megatron trains GPT-2 with context length 1K, while achieving 0.7 better perplexity. Modeling longer sequences yields 6.4 points of lift on two long-document classification tasks. Finally, FlashAttention yields the first Transformer that can achieve better-than-random performance on the challenging Path-X task (sequence length 16K), and block-sparse FlashAttention yields the first sequence model that we know of that can achieve better-than-random performance on Path-256 (sequence length 64K). Quality. FlashAttention scales Transformers to longer sequences, yielding higher quality. FlashAttention trains GPT-2 with context length 4K faster than Megatron trains GPT-2 with context length 1K, while achieving 0.7 better perplexity. Modeling longer sequences yields 6.4 points of lift on two long-document classification tasks. Finally, FlashAttention yields the first Transformer that can achieve better-than-random performance on the challenging Path-X task (sequence length 16K), and block-sparse FlashAttention yields the first sequence model that we know of that can achieve better-than-random performance on Path-256 (sequence length 64K). - • Benchmarking Attention. We measure the runtime and memory performance of FlashAttention and block-sparse FlashAttention based on sequence length. We confirm that the memory footprint of FlashAttention scales linearly with seq. length and is up to 3 × \times faster than standard attention for common seq. lengths (up to 2K). We confirm that runtime of block-sparse FlashAttention scales linearly in seq. length and is faster than all existing approximate attention baselines. Benchmarking Attention. We measure the runtime and memory performance of FlashAttention and block-sparse FlashAttention based on sequence length. We confirm that the memory footprint of FlashAttention scales linearly with seq. length and is up to 3 × \times faster than standard attention for common seq. lengths (up to 2K). We confirm that runtime of block-sparse FlashAttention scales linearly in seq. length and is faster than all existing approximate attention baselines. Additional experiment details are in Appendix E .