## B.5 Comparison with Rabe and Staats [ 66 ]

 We describe here some similarities and differences between our FlashAttention algorithm and the algorithm of Rabe and Staats [ 66 ] . Conceptually, both FlashAttention and Rabe and Staats [ 66 ] operate on blocks of the attention matrix using the well-established technique of tiling (or softmax scaling) [ 60 , 51 ] . To reduce the memory footprint, both methods avoid storing the large attention matrix in the forward pass and recompute it in the backward pass. The first major difference is that Rabe and Staats [ 66 ] focuses on the reducing the total memory footprint (maximum amount of GPU memory required) while FlashAttention focuses on reducing memory accesses (the number of memory reads/writes). As mentioned in Section 2 , the amount of memory access is the primary determining factor of runtime. Reducing memory accesses also necessarily reduces the total amount of memory required (e.g., if an operation incurs A 𝐴 A memory accesses, then its total memory requirement is at most A 𝐴 A ). As a result, FlashAttention is faster than standard attention (2-4 × \times ) while Rabe and Staats [ 66 ] is around the same speed or slightly slower than standard attention. In terms of total memory required, both methods offer substantial memory saving. The second difference between the two methods is the way information is summarized from each block to pass to the next block. Rabe and Staats [ 66 ] summarizes each block with its temporary output along with the softmax normalization statistics. At the end of the forward pass, the temporary outputs of all the blocks are combined using the statistics to produce the final output. FlashAttention instead incrementally updates the output ( Algorithm 1 line 12 ) after processing each block, so only one copy of the output is needed (instead of K 𝐾 K copies for K 𝐾 K blocks). This means that FlashAttention has smaller total memory requirement compared to Rabe and Staats [ 66 ] . The final major difference is the way the backward pass is computed. Rabe and Staats [ 66 ] uses gradient checkpointing to recompute the attention matrix and the temporary output of each block. FlashAttention instead simplifies the backward pass analytically ( Sections B.2 and B.4 ). It only recomputes the attention matrix and does not recompute the temporary output of each block. This reduces the memory requirement for the backward pass and yields speedup.