## E.3 LRA details

 We follow the hyperparameters from the Long-range arena paper [ 80 ] , the Long-range arena repo ( https://github.com/google-research/long-range-arena ), and the Nyströmformer reproduction [ 90 ] . To be generous to the baseline methods, if we are unable to reproduce the performance of any baseline for any of the five tasks, we report the better performance from Tay et al. [ 80 ] or Xiong et al. [ 90 ] for that baseline on that task. After hyperparameter tuning, almost all of the attention methods achieve similar accuracy on all of the five LRA tasks. We run all methods with mixed-precision training, except for Performer (not stable with mixed precision) and Local Attention (implementation does not support FP16). To calculate the overall wallclock-time speedup, we take the geometric mean of the wallclock-time speedup of each of the five tasks. For Path-X and Path-256, we follow the hyperparameters from the PathFinder-32 experiments from the long-range arena paper [ 80 ] . For both, we first pretrain a model on Path-64. We take the checkpoint after 200 epochs, upsample its positional embedding (we duplicate the positional embeddings gridwise in space), and fine-tune it on the downstream task for 200 epochs with one epoch of linear warmup, and cosine decay of the learning rate. For Path-X, we take the best performing checkpoint (according to val accuracy), and additionally fine-tune it for 200 epochs with the same warmup and learning rate (this adds roughly 4 points of accuracy to FlashAttention for Path-X, but the model starts overfitting afterwards).