## Hypothalamic structures studied

 Three structures were selected for this study: the preoptic area (POA), paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH), and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH). The POA, previously known as the “thermoregulatory center,” contains warm-sensitive neurons that control all autonomic thermoeffectors [3] and that are thought to be the first neurons in the efferent fever pathway [13]–[16]. Animals with POA lesions cannot defend their Tb autonomically against either cold or heat [17]–[21]. In the present study, we placed large bilateral electrolytic lesions in the POA of rats (Fig. 1A). Confirming findings by others [17]–[25], the POA-lesioned rats had a somewhat elevated Tb and were incapable of defending their Tb autonomically against either moderate heat exposure (P = 0.003) or mild cold exposure (P<0.001) (Fig. 1B). In fact, heat-induced hyperthermia in POA-lesioned animals was so severe that the time of heat exposure in these experiments had to be reduced to 1 h (instead of the 2 h planned) to avoid heat stroke. The second structure studied, the PVH, is unique from a thermoregulatory perspective: it has been implicated in selectively mediating thermoregulatory responses to inflammatory stimuli. Indeed, electrolytic and chemical lesions of the PVH neither alter the circadian rhythm of Tb [26] nor affect Tb responses to cold or heat [27], [28]. However, they do attenuate LPS fever, at least when the animals cannot use behavioral means to regulate their Tb and must rely on autonomic means to mount the febrile response [26]–[28]. We placed large bilateral electrolytic lesions in the PVH of rats (Fig. 2A). As expected, such lesions did not affect their ability to defend Tb autonomically against either heat or cold (Fig. 2B). The third structure studied, the DMH, is involved in the control of the most important heat production thermoeffector in the rat: brown adipose tissue [3], [29], [30]. Blocking the activation of DMH neurons pharmacologically interrupts the stimulation of brown fat thermogenesis [31], [32]. A recent study of Fos protein expression in the brain [33] suggested that the DMH is also involved in the control of operant heat-avoidance behavior (moving to a reward area to trigger a breeze of cold air). When we placed large bilateral electrolytic lesions in the DMH (Fig. 3A), the lesions did not affect the autonomic defense of Tb against heat. However, they strongly compromised autonomic cold-defense: the same cold exposure that failed to alter Tb of the sham-lesioned rats caused marked hypothermia (P<0.001) in DMH-lesioned rats (Fig. 3B). ![Figure 1 Electrolytic ablation of the POA: histological verification and effects on autonomic thermoregulation.(A) Bright-field photomicrographs of serial coronal brain sections (50 µm, cresyl violet staining) are shown for a sham-lesioned rat and a POA-lesioned rat.Here and in Figures 2, [3], [7] and [8], the number in the right upper corner of the schematic of each section of the sham-lesioned brain indicates the distance (in mm) between the section's plane and bregma. ac, anterior commissure; f, fornix; LPO, lateral preoptic area; MnPO, median preoptic nucleus; MPA, medial preoptic area; ox, optic chiasm; Sch, suprachiasmatic nucleus; SO, supraoptic nucleus; 3V, third ventricle.(B) The ability of sham-lesioned and POA-lesioned rats to defend their Tb (abdominal) during moderate heat exposure (28°C, 1 h) or mild cold exposure (17°C, 2 h).The rats could not move to a different Ta; therefore, they were forced to regulate their Tb mostly by autonomic mechanisms.](PMC_FIG_9) ![Figure 2 Electrolytic ablation of the PVH: histological verification and effects on autonomic thermoregulation.(A) Serial coronal brain sections are shown for a sham-lesioned rat and a PVH-lesioned rat. Arc, arcuate hypothalamic nucleus; ME, median eminence; mt, mammillothalamic tract; sox, supraoptic decussation; VMH, ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus.Other abbreviations used are the same as in Figure 1.(B) The ability of sham-lesioned and PVH-lesioned rats to defend their Tb by autonomic mechanisms during moderate heat exposure (28°C, 2 h) or mild cold exposure (17°C, 2 h).](PMC_FIG_10) ![Figure 3 Electrolytic ablation of the DMH: histological verification and effects on autonomic thermoregulation.(A) Serial coronal brain sections are shown for a sham-lesioned rat and a DMH-lesioned rat. InfS, infundibular stem.Other abbreviations used are the same as in Figures 1 and [2].(B) The ability of sham-lesioned and DMH-lesioned rats to defend their Tb by autonomic mechanisms during moderate heat exposure (28°C, 2 h) or mild cold exposure (17°C, 2 h).](PMC_FIG_11)