## Electrolytic lesions

 All surgical and lesioning procedures were performed under ketamine-xylazine-acepromazine (55.6, 5.5, and 1.1 mg/kg, respectively, intraperitoneally) anesthesia and antibiotic (enrofloxacin, 1.2 mg/kg, subcutaneously) protection. All brain lesions were placed on Day 0. For electrolytic lesioning, a rat was anesthetized, and the skin of the head over the frontal and parietal bones was shaved and scrubbed. The rat was fixed to a stereotaxic apparatus (David Kopf, Tujunga, CA, USA) with the incisor bar set 3.3 mm ventral to interaural line. The skin was incised over the sagittal suture, the skin and the underlying muscles were retracted, and the periosteum was detached from the bone and excised. A stainless steel electrode (250 µm diameter, Frederic Haer, Bowdoinham, ME, USA) was inserted into the brain. All stereotaxic coordinates were taken from Paxinos and Watson [70], but the anteroventral coordinate was increased by 0.5 mm to adjust for the difference in the body mass between the rats used by Paxinos and Watson [70] and those used in the present study. The following stereotaxic coordinates were used: 0.0 mm (at bregma), 0.5 mm from the midline, and 8.5 mm from the skull surface for the POA; −1.5 mm from bregma, 0.5 mm from the midline, and 8.7 mm from the skull surface for the PVH; and −2.8 mm from bregma, 0.5 mm from the midline, and 9.0 mm from the skull surface for the DMH. A second electrode (an “alligator” clip) was attached to the edge of the surgical wound on the head. To lesion the brain tissue, a precision lesioning instrument (Ugo Basile, Comerio, Italy) was used. A constant anodal current (1 mA) was passed through the electrodes for 10 s (PVH) or 30 s (POA or DMH). After the structure of interest was lesioned on one side, the electrode was removed and inserted at the same coordinates contralaterally. Sham-lesioned rats were prepared similarly, but the tip of the electrode was placed 2 mm above the POA, PVH, or DMH, and no current was passed.