## 6 Conclusion

 We have proposed \model – a simple yet effective method for synergizing reasoning and acting in large language models. Through a diverse set of experiments on multi-hop question-answering, fact checking, and interactive decision-making tasks, we show that \model leads to superior performance with interpretable decision traces. Despite the simplicity of our method, complex tasks with large action spaces require more demonstrations to learn well, which unfortunately can easily go beyond the input length limit of in-context learning. We explore the fine-tuning approach on HotpotQA with initial promising results, but learning from more high-quality human annotations will be the desiderata to further improve the performance. Scaling up \model with multi-task training and combining it with complementary paradigms like reinforcement learning could result in stronger agents that further unlock the potential of LLMs for more applications. We thank the support and feedback of many people from Google Brain team and Princeton NLP Group. This work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 2107048. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. Our main experiments are done on PaLM (Chowdhery et al., 2022 ) , which is not an openly accessible model yet. To increase reproducibility, we have included all used prompts in Appendix C , additional experiments using GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020 ) in Appendix A.1 , and associated GPT-3 \model prompting code at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/ReAct-2268/ . prompts large language models to generate more human interpretable, diagnosable, and controllable task-solving trajectories than previous methods. However, hooking up a large language model with an action space to interact with external environments (e.g. the web, physical environments) has potential dangers, e.g. looking up inappropriate or private information, or taking harmful actions in an environment. Our experiments minimize such risks by limiting the interactions to specific websites (Wikipedia or WebShop) that are free of private information, without any dangerous actions in the action space design (i.e. models cannot really buy products on WebShop the research benchmark, or edit Wikipedia). We believe researchers should be aware of such risks before designing more extensive experiments in the future.