## 3.2 Methods

 For HotpotQA and Fever, we randomly select 6 and 3 cases 2 2 2 We find more examples do not improve performance. from the training set and manually compose \model -format trajectories to use as few-shot exemplars in the prompts. Similar to Figure 1 (d), each trajectory consists of multiple thought-action-observation steps (i.e. dense thought), where free-form thoughts are used for various purposes. Specifically, we use a combination of thoughts that decompose questions (“I need to search x, find y, then find z”), extract information from Wikipedia observations (“x was started in 1844”, “The paragraph does not tell x”), perform commonsense (“x is not y, so z must instead be…”) or arithmetic reasoning (“1844 < 1989”), guide search reformulation (“maybe I can search/look up x instead”), and synthesize the final answer (“…so the answer is x”). See Appendix C for more details. We systematically ablate \model trajectories to build prompts for multiple baselines (with formats as Figure 1 (1a-1c)): (a) Standard prompting ( Standard ), which removes all thoughts, actions, observations in \model trajectories. (b) Chain-of-thought prompting ( CoT ) (Wei et al., 2022 ) , which removes actions and observations and serve as a reasoning-only baseline. We also build a self-consistency baseline ( CoT-SC ) (Wang et al., 2022a ; b ) by sampling 21 CoT trajectories with decoding temperature 0.7 during inference and adopting the majority answer, which is found to consistently boost performance over CoT . (c) Acting-only prompt ( Act ), which removes thoughts in \model trajectories, loosely resembling how WebGPT (Nakano et al., 2021 ) interacts with the Internet to answer questions, though it operates on a different task and action space, and uses imitation and reinforcement learning instead of prompting. As will be detail in Section 3.3 , we observe that the problem solving process demonstrated by \model is more factual and grounded, whereas CoT is more accurate in formulating reasoning structure but can easily suffer from hallucinated facts or thoughts. We therefore propose to incorporate \model and CoT-SC , and let the model decide when to switch to the other method based on the following heuristics: A) \model → → \to CoT-SC : when \model fails to return an answer within given steps, back off to CoT-SC . We set 7 and 5 steps for HotpotQA and FEVER respectively as we find more steps will not improve \model performance 3 3 3 Of all trajectories with correct final answers, those with 7 steps on HotpotQA and 5 steps on FEVER only take up 0.84% and 1.33% respectively. . B) CoT-SC → → \to \model : when the majority answer among n 𝑛 n CoT-SC samples occurs less than n / 2 𝑛 2 n/2 times (i.e. internal knowledge might not support the task confidently), back off to \model . Due to the challenge of manually annotating reasoning traces and actions at scale, we consider a bootstraping approach similar to Zelikman et al. ( 2022 ) , using 3,000 trajectories with correct answers generated by \model (also for other baselines) to finetune smaller language models (PaLM-8/62B) to decode trajectories (all thoughts, actions, observations) conditioned on input questions/claims. More details are in Appendix B.1 .