## 5.3 Responsible Release Strategy

 We make Llama 2 available for both research and commercial use at https://ai.meta.com/resources/models-and-libraries/llama/ . Those who use Llama 2 must comply with the terms of the provided license and our Acceptable Use Policy , which prohibit any uses that would violate applicable policies, laws, rules, and regulations. We also provide code examples to help developers replicate our safe generations with Llama 2-Chat and apply basic safety techniques at the user input and model output layers. These code samples are available here: https://github.com/facebookresearch/llama . Finally, we are sharing a Responsible Use Guide , which provides guidelines regarding safe development and deployment. While many companies have opted to build AI behind closed doors, we are releasing Llama 2 openly to encourage responsible AI innovation. Based on our experience, an open approach draws upon the collective wisdom, diversity, and ingenuity of the AI-practitioner community to realize the benefits of this technology. Collaboration will make these models better and safer. The entire AI community—academic researchers, civil society, policymakers, and industry—must work together to rigorously analyze and expose the risks of current AI systems and to build solutions that address potentially problematic misuse. This approach not only fosters real collaboration with diverse stakeholders—those beyond the walls of big tech companies—but also serves as the cornerstone for democratizing access to foundational models. As argued in Zellers et al. ( 2019b ) , open releases promote transparency and allow more people to access AI tools, democratizing the technology and decentralizing AI expertise. We believe that the decentralization of AI expertise does more than simply distribute knowledge—it stimulates innovation and accelerates progress in the industry. Lastly, openly releasing these models consolidates costs and eliminates barriers to entry, allowing small businesses to leverage innovations in LLMs to explore and build text-generation use cases. Ultimately, we believe this will create a more level playing field for organizations of all sizes across the globe to benefit from the economic growth promised by the advancement of AI. We know that not everyone who uses AI models has good intentions, and we acknowledge that there are reasonable concerns regarding the ways that AI will impact our world. Toxic content generation and problematic associations are meaningful risks that the AI community has yet to fully mitigate. As this paper illustrates, we have made strides in limiting the prevalence of these types of responses. While we recognize there is more work to be done, this realization only deepens our commitment to open science and collaboration with the AI community.