## 5.2 Limitations and Ethical Considerations

 Llama 2-Chat is subject to the same well-recognized limitations of other LLMs, including a cessation of knowledge updates post-pretraining, potential for non-factual generation such as unqualified advice, and a propensity towards hallucinations. Furthermore, our initial version of Llama 2-Chat predominantly concentrated on English-language data. While our experimental observations suggest the model has garnered some proficiency in other languages, its proficiency is limited, due primarily to the limited amount of pretraining data available in non-English languages (as documented in Table 10 ). Consequently, the model’s performance in languages other than English remains fragile and should be used with caution. Like other LLMs, Llama 2 may generate harmful, offensive, or biased content due to its training on publicly available online datasets. We attempted to mitigate this via fine-tuning, but some issues may remain, particularly for languages other than English where publicly available datasets were not available. We will continue to fine-tune and release updated versions in the future as we progress on addressing these issues. Not everyone who uses AI models has good intentions, and conversational AI agents could potentially be used for nefarious purposes such as generating misinformation or retrieving information about topics like bioterrorism or cybercrime. We have, however, made efforts to tune the models to avoid these topics and diminish any capabilities they might have offered for those use cases. While we attempted to reasonably balance safety with helpfulness, in some instances, our safety tuning goes too far. Users of Llama 2-Chat may observe an overly cautious approach, with the model erring on the side of declining certain requests or responding with too many safety details. Users of the pretrained models need to be particularly cautious, and should take extra steps in tuning and deployment as described in our Responsible Use Guide. 8 8 8 https://ai.meta.com/llama